/*
Playwright Interview Questions-2
=================================
1. What are your responsibilities in your project?
Answer: In my project, my responsibilities include designing and implementing automated test scripts using Playwright,
maintaining the test framework, and ensuring that our tests are reliable and efficient. 
I also collaborate with the development team to understand the application features and requirements, and
I work on creating comprehensive test cases that cover various scenarios. 
Additionally, I am responsible for analyzing test results, identifying any issues or failures, and working with the team to resolve them. 
Overall, my role is to ensure that our automated testing efforts contribute to the overall quality and success of the project.

2. Explain the automation framework that you are following in your recent project?
Answer: In my recent project, we are following a hybrid automation framework that combines the benefits of both data-driven and
keyword-driven testing approaches. This allows us to create flexible and maintainable test scripts that can easily adapt to changes
in the application under test. The framework is designed to separate the test logic from the test data, making it easier to manage
and update test cases as needed. We also utilize page object models to encapsulate the interactions with the application's user interface,
which helps to improve code reusability and maintainability. Overall, this hybrid framework allows us to efficiently automate 
our test cases while ensuring that our tests are robust and reliable.

3. What are the challenges you faced during autmation script preparation and execution?
Answer: Some of the challenges I faced during automation script preparation and execution include:
1. Dynamic Elements: Handling dynamic elements on the web page that change their properties or locators can be challenging. I had to implement strategies to identify and interact with these elements reliably.
2. Test Data Management: Managing test data effectively was a challenge, especially when dealing with large datasets or complex scenarios. I had to create a robust test data management strategy to ensure that the tests were consistent and maintainable.
3. Cross-Browser Compatibility: Ensuring that the automation scripts work across different browsers and platforms was another challenge. I had to perform extensive testing and make necessary adjustments to handle browser-specific issues.
4. Flaky Tests: Dealing with flaky tests that sometimes pass and sometimes fail due to timing issues or other factors was a significant challenge. I had to implement retries and improve the stability of the tests to minimize flakiness.

4. How many test cases do you automate in each sprint?
Answer: The number of test cases that I automate in each sprint can vary depending on the complexity of the features being developed 
and the testing requirements. However, I typically aim to automate a significant portion of the test cases that are critical 
for validating the functionality of the application. This can range from 20 to 50 test cases per sprint, 
depending on the scope of the work and the resources available. The goal is to ensure that we have a robust suite of automated tests 
that can provide quick feedback on the quality of the application while also allowing for manual testing where necessary.

5. What type of framework that you used in your project? Explain about the framework.
Answer: In our project, we are using a hybrid framework that combines the benefits of both data-driven and keyword-driven testing approaches.
This allows us to create flexible and maintainable test scripts that can easily adapt to changes in the application under test. 
The framework is designed to separate the test logic from the test data, making it easier to manage and update test cases as needed.
We also utilize page object models to encapsulate the interactions with the application's user interface, which helps to 
improve code reusability and maintainability. Overall, this hybrid framework allows us to efficiently automate our test cases 
while ensuring that our tests are robust and reliable.

6. How to read the config data from JSON file?
Answer: To read config data from a JSON file in TypeScript, you can use the `import` statement with the `type: "json"` option. This allows you to import the JSON file directly as a JavaScript object. For example:
```typescript
import configData from './config.json' with { type: "json" };

console.log(configData);
```
In this example, the `configData` variable will contain the contents of the `config.json` file as a JavaScript object,
which you can then use in your code to access the configuration values. Make sure that the path to the JSON file is correct and
that the file is properly formatted as JSON for this to work correctly.

7. Explain the mocha framework with page object model design pattern?
Answer: The Mocha framework with Page Object Model (POM) design pattern is a popular approach for test automation that
combines the benefits of the Mocha testing framework and the Page Object Model design pattern. 
In this framework, you define your test cases using Mocha's syntax and structure, while organizing your test code using
the Page Object Model design pattern. The Page Object Model design pattern helps to create a clear separation between the test logic
and the page interactions by creating separate classes for each page of the application. 
This promotes code reusability and maintainability, as any changes to the page structure can be easily managed within
the corresponding page object class. By using Mocha with POM, you can create clear and maintainable test cases that
are easy to understand and collaborate on across different teams.

8. Explain the cucumber bdd framework with POM?
Answer: Cucumber BDD framework with POM (Page Object Model) is a popular approach for test automation that
 combines the benefits of Behavior-Driven Development (BDD) and the Page Object Model design pattern.
 In this framework, you define your test scenarios in a human-readable format using Gherkin syntax, 
 which allows for better collaboration between technical and non-technical team members.
 The Page Object Model design pattern helps to organize your test code by creating separate classes for each page of the application,
 encapsulating the interactions with the page elements. This promotes code reusability and 
 maintainability, as any changes to the page structure can be easily managed within the corresponding page object class. 
 By using Cucumber BDD with POM, you can create clear and maintainable test cases that are easy to understand and 
 collaborate on across different teams.

9. What are the different hooks in cucumber-js?
Answer: In cucumber-js, there are several hooks that allow you to execute code at specific points during the test execution process.
The main hooks include:
1. Before: This hook runs before each scenario and is typically used for setup tasks, such as initializing test data or configuring the test environment.
2. After: This hook runs after each scenario and is commonly used for cleanup tasks, such as resetting the test environment or clearing test data.
3. BeforeStep: This hook runs before each step in a scenario and can be used to perform actions that need to be executed before every step, such as logging or setting up preconditions.
4. AfterStep: This hook runs after each step in a scenario and can be used for actions that need to be executed after every step, such as logging results or taking screenshots.

10. What is the difference between 'before' and 'beforeStep' hook?
Answer: The 'before' hook in cucumber-js runs once before each scenario, allowing you to perform setup tasks that are needed for the entire
scenario. In contrast, the 'beforeStep' hook runs before each individual step within a scenario, allowing you to perform actions
that need to be executed before every step. The 'before' hook is typically used for tasks that are common to the entire scenario, 
while the 'beforeStep' hook is used for tasks that are specific to each step.

11. What is the difference between 'after' and 'afterStep' hook?
Answer: The 'after' hook in cucumber-js runs once after each scenario, allowing you to perform cleanup tasks that are needed for the entire
 scenario. In contrast, the 'afterStep' hook runs after each individual step within a scenario, allowing you to perform actions that 
 need to be executed after every step. The 'after' hook is typically used for tasks that are common to the entire scenario, 
 while the 'afterStep' hook is used for tasks that are specific to each step.

12. What is the command to execute the test cases based on tag in parallel mode?
Answer: To execute test cases based on a specific tag in parallel mode using cucumber-js, you can use the following command:
```npx cucumber-js --tags @yourTag --parallel
```
```
Replace `@yourTag` with the actual tag you want to filter by. 
This command will run all the scenarios that are tagged with `@yourTag` in parallel, allowing for faster test execution.

13. What would you do when the test case failed during execution?
Answer: When a test case fails during execution, I would first analyze the test results and logs to identify the root cause of the failure.
I would check for any error messages or stack traces that can provide insights into what went wrong.
If the failure is due to a test script issue, I would review the code to identify any bugs or issues and fix them accordingly.
If the failure is due to an environment issue, I would investigate the environment setup and configurations to ensure that they are correct.
Additionally, I would communicate with the team to share the findings and collaborate on resolving the issue before re-running the test case
to verify that it passes successfully.

14. How to re-execute only the failed test cases?
Answer: To re-execute only the failed test cases, you can use the test runner's built-in functionality to filter and 
run only the tests that failed in the previous execution.
For example, if you are using Jest as your test runner, you can use the `--onlyFailures` flag to run only the failed tests. 
If you are using Mocha, you can use the `--grep` option to specify a pattern that matches the failed test cases.
Additionally, some test runners may generate a report or a file that contains the list of failed test cases,
which you can then use to create a custom script to re-run those specific tests.
By re-executing only the failed test cases, you can save time and resources while ensuring that any issues are addressed before the next release.

15. What are the steps that you follow when there is a flaky test?
Answer: When there is a flaky test, I follow these steps:
1. Identify the flaky test: I analyze the test results to identify which test is flaky and understand the pattern of its failures.
2. Investigate the root cause: I investigate the root cause of the flakiness by reviewing the test code, checking for any dependencies, and analyzing the environment in which the test is running.
3. Isolate the test: I try to isolate the flaky test by running it independently to see if it consistently fails or passes.
4. Fix the issue: Once I identify the root cause, I work on fixing the issue, which may involve updating the test code, improving the test environment, or addressing any dependencies that may be causing the flakiness.
5. Monitor the test: After fixing the issue, I monitor the test over multiple runs to ensure that it is no longer flaky and is providing reliable results.

16. What is the test execution process in your project?
Answer: The test execution process in our project involves several steps. First, we prepare our test environment by setting up the necessary
 configurations and dependencies.
 Then, we execute our test cases using a test runner, which runs the tests in parallel to save time.
 After the execution, we generate reports that provide insights into the test results, including any failures or errors.
 Finally, we analyze the reports to identify any issues and take necessary actions to fix them before the next release.

17. How do you integrate automation project in Jenkins?
Answer: To integrate an automation project in Jenkins, you can follow these steps:
1. Install Jenkins on your server or use a cloud-based Jenkins service.
2. Create a new Jenkins job for your automation project.
3. Configure the job to pull the code from your version control system (e.g., GitHub, GitLab).
4. Set up the build steps to install dependencies and run your automation tests (e.g., using npm scripts or command line).
5. Configure the post-build actions to generate test reports and send notifications if needed.
6. Save the job configuration and trigger the build to execute your automation tests in Jenkins.

18. How to schedule a Job in Jenkins?
Answer: To schedule a job in Jenkins, you can follow these steps:
1. Open Jenkins and navigate to the job you want to schedule.
2. Click on "Configure" to open the job configuration page.
3. Scroll down to the "Build Triggers" section.
4. Select "Build periodically" or "Poll SCM" depending on your requirements.
5. Enter the cron expression for the schedule.
6. Save the configuration.

19. What is the advantage of using CI/CD pipeline?
Answer: The advantage of using a CI/CD pipeline is that it automates the software development process, from code commits to deployment, 
ensuring faster and more reliable releases. It helps in identifying issues early, reducing manual errors, and 
improving collaboration among team members.

20. How to create a pipeline in Jenkins and explain the process of executing automation suite through Jenkins pipeline?
Answer: To create a pipeline in Jenkins, you can use the Jenkinsfile, which is a text file that defines the CI/CD pipeline.
The process involves defining stages such as checkout, build, test, and deploy within the Jenkinsfile.
When you commit code to your repository, Jenkins automatically triggers the pipeline based on the defined stages.

21. What kind of report are you generating after test suite execution?
Answer: After test suite execution, we generate detailed reports that include information about the test cases that were executed,
the results of each test case (pass/fail), and any error messages or stack traces for failed tests.
These reports can be in various formats such as HTML, XML, or JSON, and they provide insights into the overall health of the application 
being tested.


Git:
1. What are the different stages in committing the code in GitHub?
Answer: The different stages in committing code in GitHub are:
1. Untracked: When you create a new file or make changes to an existing file, it is in the untracked stage. Git is not yet aware of this file.
2. Staged: When you add a file to the staging area using the `git add` command, it moves from the untracked stage to the staged stage. This means that the file is ready to be committed.
3. Committed: When you commit the staged changes using the `git commit` command, it moves from the staged stage to the committed stage. This means that the changes are now saved in the local repository.
4. Pushed: After committing, you can push your changes to a remote repository (e.g., GitHub) using the `git push` command. This makes your changes available to others who have access to the remote repository.

2. When do you commit your code? After committing, how do you validate that everyone has the updated code?
Answer: I commit my code after I have made meaningful changes that are ready to be shared with the team.
This could be after completing a feature, fixing a bug, or making improvements to the codebase.
After committing, I validate that everyone has the updated code by pushing my changes to the remote repository (e.g., GitHub) and 
then communicating with the team to ensure they pull the latest changes.
Additionally, I may use pull requests to review and merge changes, which also helps in ensuring that everyone is aware of the updates 
being made to the codebase.

3. How to merge the changes to main/master branch? Explain the process.
Answer: To merge changes to the main/master branch, you typically follow these steps:
1. Create a new branch from the main/master branch to work on your changes.
2. Make your changes and commit them to your branch.
3. Push your branch to the remote repository (e.g., GitHub).
4. Create a pull request (PR) from your branch to the main/master branch.
5. Review the PR and address any feedback or comments from the reviewers.
6. Once the PR is approved, merge it into the main/master branch using the merge option provided by the platform (e.g., GitHub).
7. After merging, you can delete your feature branch if it is no longer needed.

4. Why do you need a .gitignore file? How do you add files to it?
Answer: A .gitignore file is used to specify which files or directories should be ignored by Git when committing changes to the repository.
This is useful for excluding files that are not relevant to the project, such as build artifacts, temporary files, or 
sensitive information like API keys.
To add files to the .gitignore file, you simply list the file names or directory paths that you want to ignore, one per line. 
For example, if you want to ignore all .log files and a specific directory called "node_modules", 
your .gitignore file would look like this:
```
*.log
node_modules/
```
This tells Git to ignore all files with the .log extension and the entire node_modules directory when committing changes to the repository.

5. Is it possible to revert the committed changes? If yes, how to revert?
Answer: Yes, it is possible to revert committed changes in Git. You can use the `git revert` command to create a new commit 
that undoes the changes made in a specific commit. This is a safe way to undo changes because it preserves the commit history.
For example, if you want to revert the last commit, you can run:
`git revert <commit-hash>`
This will create a new commit that reverses the changes made in the specified commit. If you want to revert multiple commits, 
you can specify a range of commits or use the `--no-commit` option to stage the changes for review before committing.
It is important to note that `git revert` does not delete any commits from the history, but rather adds new commits that
negate the effects of the specified commits.

6. How do you resolve the merge conflicts?
Answer: To resolve merge conflicts in Git, you can follow these steps:
1. Identify the conflicting files: When you attempt to merge branches and there are conflicts, Git will indicate which files have conflicts.
2. Open the conflicting files: Open the files in a text editor or an integrated development environment (IDE) that supports Git.
3. Look for conflict markers: Git will insert conflict markers in the file to indicate the conflicting sections. The markers look like this:

4. Manually edit the file: You need to manually edit the file to resolve the conflicts by choosing which changes to keep or by combining the changes as needed.
5. Remove conflict markers: After resolving the conflicts, make sure to remove the conflict markers from the file.
6. Stage the resolved file: Use `git add <file>` to stage the resolved file for commit.
7. Commit the changes: Finally, commit the resolved changes using `git commit` to complete the merge process.

7. Explain the git process that you are following in your project?
Answer: In our project, we follow a Git workflow that includes the following steps:
1. Branching: We create feature branches for new features or bug fixes, which are branched off from the main/master branch.
2. Development: We work on our changes in the feature branch and commit our changes regularly with meaningful commit messages.
3. Code Review: Before merging changes into the main/master branch, we conduct code reviews to ensure code quality and consistency.
4. Testing: We run tests to ensure that our changes do not introduce any regressions or issues.
5. Merge: Once the changes are approved and tested, we merge them into the main/master branch.

*/